# nlp-genre-classification

## Problem Statement

Document classification has several applications, including spam filters, automatic grading of papers, detection of inappropriate or unwanted content, and automatic organization of documents into sensible topics or categories. This last application could be used, for example, for a news website that wishes to automatically classify its articles based on their topic or genre. We plan to create an Automatic Genre Classification system with the ability to accurately assign a genre to a given document. In order to best focus on the methodology and fine-tuning of the system itself, we will attempt to solve a predefined task using the Brown Corpus. We hope to expand upon the existing research in this area to create a highly accurate and efficient document classifier that could be expanded to be applied in a variety of places.
## Evaluation Plan

The system will be given a test corpus of several documents with identification numbers, and will be expected to output a list, ordered by identification number, of the correct genres associated with each document. This output file will then be passed as input to a scoring program, which will measure the accuracy of the output against an answer key (i.e. how many of the genres the system assigned were correct). The Brown Corpus provides the genre of each document, so this will serve as our answer key. An output is considered correct if the genre that document was assigned matches the genre given for that document in the Brown Corpus. We choose accuracy as our measure of evaluation because the system will be expected to output a genre for each document in the test corpus. Another metric of evaluation we plan to use is accuracy gain, which we learned about from Qureshi et al (see below section). This metric is calculated as a percentage equal to (accuracy-baseline) / (100-baseline) * 100. Our baseline will be a random assignment of genres, and we will pass this output into the scoring program in order to get the baseline accuracy which we need to calculate the accuracy gain score. We will consider a system that has a greater accuracy and a higher accuracy gain a better system, and strive to create a system that performs as well as possible in these evaluation metrics.
